.\" Manpage for linotp.
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 arxes-tolina GmbH

.TH linotp-restore 1 "10 Aug 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-restore \- restore a backup that was made with linotp-backup

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIlinotp restore [database|audit]\fR  <--list>

\fIlinotp restore database\fR  <--file backup>  <--date date-of-backup>  <--table table name>

\fIlinotp restore audit\fR  <--file backup>  <--date date-of-backup>

\fIlinotp restore legacy\fR  <--file backup>


.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool can restore a previous made backup. As the backups for database or audit are stored
in the LINOTP_BACKUP_DIRECTORY, the --list option will show all avaliable backup by date.
Thus it is possible to define the backup by the listed timstamp or by the filename, which could
be relative or absolute.

When restoring a database there exists an additionl option, which allows to define which table
only should be restored. This will allow to restore either the config data or the token data.

To support formeri, mysql only, backup files the restore legacy command could be used.

.SH COMMON OPTIONS

.PP
\fB\<backup-file>\fR
.RS 4
The backup file to be restored. Could be a relative filename from within the LINOTP_BACKUP_DIRECTORY
or from an absolute path
.RE

.PP
\fB\<date>\fR
.RS 4
The backup of the date that should be listed.
.RE

.PP
\fB\<table>\fR
.RS 4
The name of the table that should be resored only.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1), \fBlinotp-backup\fR(1), \fBlinotp-enckey\fR(1)

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org
