.\"   LinOTP - the open source solution for two factor authentication
.\"   Copyright (C) 2010 - 2016 LSE Leading Security Experts GmbH
.\"
.\"   This file is part of LinOTP admin clients.
.\"
.\"   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
.\"   modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public
.\"   License, version 3, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"   You should have received a copy of the
.\"              GNU Affero General Public License
.\"   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"
.\"   E-mail: linotp@lsexperts.de
.\"   Contact: www.linotp.org
.\"   Support: www.lsexperts.de
.\"
.\" Manpage for glinotpadm.py.
.\" Contact linotp@lsexperts.de for any feedback.
.TH man 1 "21 Sep 2010" "2.2" "glinotpadm.py man page"
.SH NAME
glinotpadm.py \- manage the LSE LinOTP server and OTP tokens.
.SH SYNOPSIS
glinotpadm.py 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glinotpadm.py is the graphical (python GTK based) client to manage the LSE LinOTP server. The LinOTP server is an authentication backend, that can handle many different OTP (one time password) tokens. The command takes no arguments. After starting the client, be sure to configure the LinOTP server you want to connect to. Therefor enter the menu Configuration->Client Configuration.


.SH INTERNET SOURCES
http://www.linotp.org,  http://www.lsexperts.de
.SH SEE ALSO
python (1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
LSE Leading Security Experts GmbH <linotp@lsexperts.de>
