.\" Manpage for linotp init.
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 arxes-tolina GmbH

.TH linotp-init 1 "10 Aug 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-init \- initialize LinOTP database, audit database, encryption keys
data

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fIlinotp init all\fR [\-f|\-\-force]
\fIlinotp init audit-keys\fR [\-f|\-\-force]
\fIlinotp init database\fR [\-\-erase\-all\-data] [\-\-yes]
\fIlinotp init enc-key\fR [\-f|\-\-force]
.fi
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
This command is used to initialise various pieces of data that LinOTP requires
to run. This includes encryption keys or the database structure.
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
all [\-f|\-\-force]
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp init all\fR command executes the \fIenc-key\fR,
\fIaudit-keys\fR, and \fIdatabase\fR subcommands in sequence. If the
\fB-f\fR (or \fB\-\-force\fR) option is given, it will be passed on to those
subcommands that support a \fB\-\-force\fR option.
.sp
This is useful for package postinst scripts and similar situations.
.RE
.PP
audit-keys [\-f|\-\-force]
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp init audit-keys\fR command creates a pair of RSA key
(public and private) which is used to sign the audit log. These keys
are deposited in the files named by the \fIAUDIT_PUBLIC_KEY_FILE\fR
and \fIAUDIT_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE\fR configuration settings. If the
private-key file already exists, it will only be overwritten if the
\fB\-\-force\fR option is specified. In that case, the previous
version of the file will be saved to a file with the same name and the
current date and time appended. (This can be restored by renaming it
to the name given by \fIAUDIT_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE\fR.) An existing
public-key file will not be saved, but can always be recreated from
the private-key file using the
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ openssl rsa -in private.pem -pubout -out public.pem
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.sp
command.
.RE
.PP
database [\-\-erase\-all\-data] [\-\-yes]
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp init database\fR command installs the (SQL DDL) schema
for the main LinOTP database on a given supported database server. The
connection to the database server is given by the
\fIDATABASE_URI\fR configuration setting. It is not a
problem to run this command on an existing database; any data in the
database is preserved unless the \fB\-\-erase\-all\-data\fR option is
given (which will completely empty the database). Erasing all data
must be confirmed unless the \fB\-\-yes\fR option is also specified.
.RE
.PP
enc-key [\-f|\-\-force] [\-\-dump] [\-\-keys=<keys>]
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp init enc-key\fR command creates a set of symmetric
encryption/decryption keys for LinOTP. This is used to protect
sensitive data in the database (such as token seeds, configuration
values, or passwords). It is also used by the default
(software-simulated) security module.
.sp
The keys are written to the file named by the \fISECRET_FILE\fR
configuration setting. If this file already exists, it will only be
overwritten if the \fB\-\-force\fR option is specified. In that case,
the previous version of the file will be saved to a file with the same
name and the current date and time appended. (This can be restored by
renaming it to the name given by \fISECRET_FILE\fR.)
.sp
\fBDO NOT OVERWRITE THE SECRET-KEYS FILE FOR A LINOTP SERVER THAT IS
BEING USED PRODUCTIVELY!!!\fR If the secret keys are lost, the encrypted
portions of the database become inaccessible (unless you know somebody
who can crack AES).
.sp
With the \fB\-\-dump\fR option, the keys are output in a format that
makes it feasible to re-enter the keys by hand in case of
catastrophe. Print this out and store it somewhere safe (do consider
that whoever gets hold of the keys and a backup of your database can
look at the encrypted bits). If the unthinkable occurs and you need to
restore your secret keys from the paper backup, refer to the printed
instructions to use the \fB\-\-keys\fR option to re-enter the keys.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1)

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org
