.\" Manpage for linotp config.
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 arxes-tolina GmbH
.TH linotp-config 1 "10 Aug 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-config \- inspect and explain LinOTP configuration

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIlinotp config\fR show [\-m|\-\-modified] [\-V|\-\-values] [<item>\&...]
\fIlinotp config\fR explain [\-\-sample\-file] [\-\-banner|\-\-no\-banner] [<item>\&...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use \fBlinotp config\fR to inspect the configuration of your LinOTP server.
The \fBlinotp config show\fR command gives you a quick overview of configuration
settings and their current values, while \fBlinotp config explain\fR shows you
individual settings together with important and additional extra information about
them.

.SH OPTIONS

show [\-m|\-\-modified] [\-V|\-\-values] [<item>\&...]
.RS 4
Show the <item> together with its current value. Multiple <item>s may be specified.
If no <item> is specified, display all configuration settings.

Note that this command takes into consideration Flask configuration
settings that are not actually part of the LinOTP configuration but
can also influence the Flask server that LinOTP is based upon. These
will show up in listings but cannot be processed using the
\fB\-\-modified\fR
option, which will silently ignore them.

The \fB\-\-values\fR option causes only the values of the <item>s to
be output, not their names. This is useful when you want to use the
values in shell scripts.
.RE

explain [\-\-sample-file] [\-\-banner|\-\-no-banner] [<item>\&...]
.RS 4
Show an "explanation" of the <item> (or <item>s). This includes the
item's name, type, any constraints that apply to its value, its
default and current values, and a textual explanation of what it does.
If no <item>s are given, all configuration settings in the schema are
output.

If the \fB\-\-sample\-file\fR option is given, the explanation is
written to standard output in a format that would be suitable for a
"sample" \fIlinotp.cfg\fR configuration file. This includes the
textual explanation as a comment and a commented-out assignment that
would set the configuration item to its hard-coded default value. If
the \fB\-\-banner\fR option is specified, an explanatory note is
output at the start of the file.

This works only for <item>s that are part of the LinOTP configuration
schema, not Flask configuration settings.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1)

.SH BUGS
The \fBshow\fR subcommand outputs both Flask configuration settings
and LinOTP configuration settings, with no clear demarcation between
the two.

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org
