.\" Manpage for linotp dbsnapshot.
.\" Copyright (C) 2019-     netgo software GmbH

.TH linotp-dbsnapshot 1 "03 Nov 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-dbsnapshot \- manage database-engine independent snapshots of the LinOTP database

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fIlinotp dbsnapshot create\fR
\fIlinotp dbsnapshot restore\fR \-\-file|\-\-date <date> [\-\-table=(config|token|audit)]
\fIlinotp dbsnapshot list\fR
.fi
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.PP
This command is used to manage "snapshots" of the LinOTP
database. Snapshots are created using SQLAlchemy's object-dump
facility and are therefore independent of the underlying database
engine (such as MySQL or PostgreSQL). On the other hand, they do
depend on the internal (Python) definition of the objects being
dumped. This makes snapshots very useful if you want to migrate an
existing LinOTP instance from, say, MySQL to PostgreSQL but less
useful if you want to restore a snapshot from an older LinOTP version
to a much newer one, as the object definitions may have evolved in the
meantime.
.PP
\fIDo not confuse\fR this command with the \fIlinotp backup\fR
command, which manages backups of MySQL (and MariaDB) databases using
engine-specific tools and cannot be used with LinOTP instances based
on PostgreSQL, SQLite, or other database engines.
.PP
Note that the database may contain data that has been encrypted using
the current encryption key as per the file named by the
\fISECRET_FILE\fR configuration setting. The same key must be
available to use a restored snapshot. \fBYOU MAY WISH TO MAKE VERY SURE
INDEED THAT THE ENCRYPTION KEY IS ALSO BACKED UP IN A SAFE PLACE WHEN
YOU ARE MAKING DATABASE SNAPSHOTS.\fR
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
create
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp dbsnapshot create\fR command creates a snapshot of the
current LinOTP database and stores it in the directory given by the
\fIBACKUP_DIR\fR configuration setting. This will include audit data
if \fIAUDIT_DATABASE_URI\fR is set to \fISHARED\fR.
.RE
.PP
restore [\-\-file|\-\-date <date>] [\-\-table=(config|token|audit)]
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp dbsnapshot restore\fR command restores a snapshot of the
LinOTP database from the directory given by the \fIBACKUP_DIR\fR
configuration setting. The snapshot to be restored may be selected
either by file name using the \fB\-\-file\fR option, or by date using
the \fB\-\-date\fR option. The date must be given in the format
"YYYY-MM-DD_hh-mm". Only selected parts of the database may be
restored by means of the \fB\-\-table\fR option; \fB\-\-table=token\fR
will restore the \fIToken\fR, \fITokenRealm\fR, and \fIRealm\fR tables.
.RE
.PP
list
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp dbsnapshot list\fR lists the snapshots stored in the
directory given by the \fIBACKUP_DIR\fR configuration setting.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1), \fBlinotp-backup\fR(1), \fBlinotp-config\fR(5)

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org

