.\" Manpage for linotp.
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 arxes-tolina GmbH
.TH linotp 1 "10 Aug 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp \- the open source solution for multi-factor authentication

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIlinotp\fR <command> [<args>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
LinOTP is a modular and open source project that lets you choose from various
different one time password algorithms to authenticate your users. With the aim
of not locking you into any particular authentication method, protocol or
user information storage, LinOTP provides libraries, utilities and APIs to let
you customize your authentication processes.

Additional components such as the LinOTP authentication modules or the LinOTP
administration clients make it easy to integrate into your environment.


.SH LINOTP COMMANDS
Below is a list of the commands provided by LinOTP for your convenience.
Each of them has a detailed manpage you can refer to.

\fBlinotp-audit-janitor\fR(1)
.RS 4
\fIlinotp audit-janitor\fR clears old entries from the audit log.
.RE

\fBlinotp-backup\fR(1)
.RS 4
\fIlinotp backup\fR creates an encrypted backup of the LinOTP database and
encryption key.
.RE

\fBlinotp-config\fR(1)
.RS 4
\fIlinotp config\fR explains LinOTP configuration and lets you inspect current
values.
.RE

\fBlinotp-dbsnapshot\fR(1)
.RS 4
\fIlinotp dbsnapshot\fR manages database-engine independent snapshots of the
LinOTP database.
.RE

\fBlinotp-init\fR(1)
.RS 4
\fIlinotp init\fR generates encryption keys and initialises the LinOTP database
with a schema.
.RE

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org

