.\" Manpage for linotp local-admins.
.\" Copyright (c) netgo software GmbH

.TH linotp-local-admins 1 "29 Oct 2021" "3.1" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-local-admins \- handle LinOTP local administrator accounts

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fIlinotp local-admins\fR add [args] <account-name>
\fIlinotp local-admins\fR enable
\fIlinotp local-admins\fR list [\-f|\--format <format>] [\-l|\--long]
\fIlinotp local-admins\fR modify [args] <account-name>
\fIlinotp local-admins\fR password [\-p|\-\-password <password>] <account_name>
\fIlinotp local-admins\fR remove [\-\-yes] <account-name>
.fi
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
This command is used to create, modify, list, or remove local LinOTP
administrator accounts. Historically, local LinOTP administrators were
managed using Apache password tools, but in the interest of security
and flexibility this is now done internally to LinOTP.
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
add [args] <account-name>
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp local-admins add\fR command adds a local administrator account
by the name of \fI<account_name>\fR. Additional data about the account can
optionally be specified using the \fB\-\-givenname\fR, \fB\-\-surname\fR,
\fB\-\-email\fR, \fB\-\-phone\fR, and \fB\-\-mobile\fR options. Each of these
takes a string parameter and defaults to an empty string if it is not given.
.sp
A newly created account does not allow logins until a password is set
for it by means of \fIlinotp local-admins password\fR.
.RE
.PP
enable
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp local-admins enable\fR command ensures that the local
administrator account resolver is part of the LinOTP admin realm. If
it is not already in the list of resolvers associated with this realm
or if that list is empty, it is added to the list.
.sp
The local administrator account resolver cannot be deleted outright,
but it can be removed from the LinOTP admin realm and will
consequently no longer be used for authentication. This can lead to
problems if any remaining resolvers in the LinOTP admin realm are
faulty such that LinOTP administrators can no longer authenticate
through the web UI. In that case, a system administrator with shell
access to the LinOTP host can use the \fIlinotp local-admins enable\fR
command to restore access to the web UI. We don't expect you to use it
often, but it can help avoid a painful impact if you have sawed
through the branch you were sitting on.
.sp
Note that the \fIlinotp local-admins enable\fR command refers to the
LinOTP settings for the names of the local administrator account
resolver (\fIADMIN_RESOLVER_NAME\fR) and admin realm
(\fIADMIN_REALM_NAME\fR). Another way to shoot yourself in the foot is
to rename the local administrator account resolver or admin realm
without changing the configuration setting, or vice versa. This cannot
be rectified using \fIlinotp local-admins enable\fR; you need to
adjust the LinOTP configuration appropriately to reenable access.
.RE
.PP
list [\-f|\-\-format <format>] [\-l|\--long]
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp local-admins list\fR command lists the names of all
currently-defined local administrator accounts, one per line.
.sp
If the \fB\--format\fR option is given, its argument is interpreted as
a Python \fBstr.format()\fR formatting template which controls how the
data for a single account is output. The default (if \fB\--format\fR
is not specified) is \fB"{username}"\fR (the account name).
.sp
The \fB\--long\fR option is equivalent to \fB--format
"{username}:{name}:{email}:{phone}:{mobile}"\fR, where \fB{name}\fR is
a convenient abbreviation for the account's given name and surname
concatenated using a space (if either of the two is not known,
\fB{name}\fR becomes the other, but without the space). If both
\fB--format\fR and \fB--long\fR are specified, \fB--format\fR wins.
.RE
.PP
modify [args] <account-name>
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp local-admins modify\fR command modifies the additional
data associated with a local administrator account, using the
\fB\-\-givenname\fR, \fB\-\-surname\fR, \fB\-\-email\fR,
\fB\-\-phone\fR, and \fB\-\-mobile\fR options. If an option is not
given, its value remains unchanged. To delete the value of an option,
set it to the empty string as in \fB\-\-email=""\fR.
.sp
Note that it is not possible to modify the account name. The password
must be changed using the \fIlinotp local-admins password\fR command.
.RE
.PP
password [\-\-password <password>] <account-name>
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp local-admins password\fR command sets the password for
the specified local administrator account. If the \fB\-\-password\fR
option is given, the password is set to the specified
<password>. Otherwise, the user is prompted for the password (with a
repetition for confirmation).
.sp
If the option \fB\-\-password=-\fR is given, the password is read from
standard input without confirmation and without hiding the input. This
is useful in scripts.
.sp
\fISecurity caveats:\fR (1) The command does not query the existing
password to ensure that the user is authorised to reset the
password. (2) Passing the password on the command line is a possible
security risk.
.RE
.PP
remove [\-\-yes] <account-name>
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp local-admins remove\fR command removes the specified
local administrator account. The user is asked for confirmation unless
the \fB\-\-yes\fR option is specified.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1)

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org
