.\" Manpage for linotp.
.\" Copyright (C) 2019-     netgo software GmbH

.TH linotp-backup 1 "04 Nov 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-backup \- manage backups of MySQL-based LinOTP instances

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fIlinotp backup create\fR
\fIlinotp backup restore \-\-file <backup-file>\fR
.fi
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.PP
This command is used to manage backups of a LinOTP database hosted on
MySQL (or MariaDB). These are created using MySQL's \fImysqldump\fR
command and therefore cannot be restored on other database engines.
.PP
\fIDo not confuse\fR this command with the \fIlinotp dbsnapshot\fR
command, which uses the SQLAlchemy object-dump facility and creates
backups that are independent of the database engine used. Unlike
\fIlinotp backup\fR, \fIlinotp dbsnapshot\fR creates backups that can
be restored on LinOTP instances using different engines such as
PostgreSQL, but there may be issues with restoring a backup on a
different version of LinOTP because the underlying object definitions
may have evolved in the meantime.
.PP
Note that the database may contain data that has been encrypted using
the current encryption key as per the file named by the
\fISECRET_FILE\fR configuration setting. The same key must be
available to use a restored backup. \fBYOU MAY WISH TO MAKE VERY SURE
INDEED THAT THE ENCRYPTION KEY IS ALSO BACKED UP IN A SAFE PLACE WHEN
YOU ARE MAKING DATABASE BACKUPS.\fR
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
create
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp backup create\fR command creates a backup of the current
LinOTP database in the current directory. This includes the complete
MySQL database; in particular, audit data will be part of the backup
if \fIAUDIT_DATABASE_URI\fR is set to \fISHARED\fR.
.RE
.PP
restore \-\-file=<backup-file>
.RS 4
The \fIlinotp backup restore\fR command restores a backup of the
LinOTP database stored in the \fI<backup-file>\fR. This must have been
previously created using \fIlinotp create\fR.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1), \fBlinotp-dbsnapshot\fR(1), \fBlinotp-config\fR(5)

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org
