.\" Manpage for linotp.
.\" Copyright (C) 2019-     netgo software GmbH

.TH linotp-audit-cleanup 1 "10 Aug 2020" "3.0" "LinOTP"

.SH NAME
linotp-audit-cleanup \- remove old entries from the audit table.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIlinotp audit cleanup\fR [--max=<max entries>] [--keep=<number of entries to keep>] [--exportdir=<path to export removed entries>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool removes old entries from the audit table.
If more than --max-entries-to-keep entries are in the audit table, 
older entries will be deleted so that only --max-entries-to-keep
entries remain in the table.
If "exportdir" is given, the removed entries will
be exported as "SQLData.year.month.day-max_id.csv"

.SH COMMON OPTIONS

.PP
\fB\--max-entries-to-keep=<max entries to keep>\fR
.RS 4
The maximum number of entries to keep if cleanup is triggered. Defaults to 5,000.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--cleanup-threshold=<cleanup threshold>\fR
.RS 4
Specify the maximum number of entries in the database that triggers the cleanup process.
When the number of entries exceeds this threshold, the cleanup process is initiated.
This value must be greater than or equal to the value specified for --max-entries-to-keep.
If you do not want to directly reach the limit again, set it to a lower number than --max-entries-to-keep.
This is especially usefull for cronjobs triggering an export. In this case, setting --cleanup-threshold
to e.g. twice the amount of --max-entries-to-keep will drastically reduce the number of backup-files.
Defaults to the value of --max-entries-to-keep.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--delete-after-days=<number of days>\fR
.RS 4
Delete entries older than the given number of days (starting from the beginning of the day).
Can't be used alongside `--max-entries-to-keep` or `--cleanup-threshold`!
.RE

.PP
\fB\--export\fR
.RS 4
If --export is given, all entries which are removed will be exported
into a csv file into the BACKUP_DIR path given as "SQLData.year.month.day-max_id.csv".
.RE

.PP
\fB\--exportdir=<path to export removed entries>\fR
.RS 4
If given alongside --export, exported file will be written into given path
instead of BACKUP_DIR.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlinotp\fR(1)

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
https://www.linotp.org