.\"   LinOTP - the open source solution for two factor authentication
.\"   Copyright (C) 2010 - 2016 LSE Leading Security Experts GmbH
.\"
.\"   This file is part of LinOTP admin clients.
.\"
.\"   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
.\"   modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public
.\"   License, version 3, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"   You should have received a copy of the
.\"              GNU Affero General Public License
.\"   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"
.\"   E-mail: linotp@lsexperts.de
.\"   Contact: www.linotp.org
.\"   Support: www.lsexperts.de
.\"
.\" Manpage for linotpadm.py.
.\" Contact linot@lsexperts.de for any feedback.
.TH man 1 "02 Jul 2010" "2.2" "linotpadm.py man page"
.SH NAME
linotpadm.py \- manage the LSE LinOTP server and OTP tokens.
.SH SYNOPSIS
linotpadm.py --url=<linotpserver> [ --admin=<adminuser> ] --command=<commands> [ command options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
linotpadm.py is the command line client to manage the LSE LinOTP server. The LinOTP server is an authentication backend, that can handle many different OTP (one time password) tokens.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\--url=<server> \fR
.br
\fB\-U <server>\fR
.RS 4
With this parameter you specify on which URL you want to contact the LinOTP server. This parameter is mandatory.

The LinOTP server will usually run on port 80 or 443, if you are using SSL. Or - if the LinOTP server is simply run by paster - it also may run on 5000 or 5001. So the right url should be \fB --url=https://linotpserver:443\fR or \fB --url=http://linotpserver:80\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--admin=<adminuser>\fR
.br
\fB\-a <adminuser>\fR
.RS 4
If you need to authenticate to the admin interface, you can specify the name of the admin user here. You will be asked for the password.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--cert=<file>\fR
.br
\fB\-c <file>\fR
.RS 4
If the server is configured to request a client certificate to authenticate to the admin interface, you can specifiy the name of the PKCS#12 file here. If the private key of the PKCS#12 file is passphrase protected, you will be asked for the passphrase.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--key=<file>\fR
.br
\fB\-k <file>\fR
.RS 4
If you are using a client certificate for the admin interface, you may specify the name of the key file here.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--version\fR
.br
\fB\-v\fR
.RS 4
Print version information of this linotpadm management client.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--help\fR
.br
\fB\-h\fR
.RS 4
Print help information on the parameters and options.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--automate=<config file>\fR
.RS
The parameters are read from the config file. Can be combined with parameters on the command line.
For a config file example see below.
.RE

.PP
\fB\--command=<command>\fR
.br
\fB\-C <command>\fR
.RS
Specify which command you want to execute on the LinOTP server. A list of all commands can be found in the section \fBCOMMANDS\fR.
.RE

.SH TOKEN MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
The LinOTP server accepts many different commands that
can be sent to the server using this management client.
Each command can take several arguments. These are described in
more detail in the section \fBCOMMAND ARGUMENTS\fR. You may issue
the following commands. The arguments the command will accepts are 
listed behind the command. Optional parameters are denoted in square
brackets.

.PP
\fB listtoken [ --user= | --serial= ]\fR
.RS 4
This command returns a list of the token known by the LinOTP server. The list can be filtered for users or serialnumber of the token. 
The user needs to be entered as loginname.
.RE

.PP
\fB listuser\fR
.RS 4
This lists the users the LinOTP server will find in all confgiured UserIdResolvers.
.RE

.PP
\fB inittoken --serial= --otpey= [--user=]  [--description=] [--pin=] [--etng] [--pytoken] [--type=]  \fR
.RS 4
This command initializes a token, i.e. it creates a new token in the database. The only mandatory parameters are --serial and --otpkey. If you
like to, you can also issue the parameter --user. In this case the token will be assigned immediately to this user. Als you can set the PIN, add a
description or specify the tokentype.
.RE

.PP
\fB assigntoken --user= --serial=  \fR
.RS 4
This will assign the token with the given serial number to the given user.
.RE

.PP
\fB unassigntoken --serial=\fR
.RS 4
This will unassign the token with the given serial number from its user.
.RE

.PP
\fB importtoken --file= | -f  \fR
.RS 4
This will import tokens that are defined in an XML file to the LinOTP server. The file needs to be in the format for eToken PASS by SafeNet/Aladdin.
.RE

.PP
\fB disabletoken --serial= | --user \fR
.RS 4
This will disable the token with the given serialnumber or all tokens of the given user. Disabling a token means, that it can not be used to authenticate anymore, as long as it is not enabled again.
.RE

.PP
\fB enabletoken --serial= | --user=  \fR
.RS 4
This will enable a disabled token again.
.RE

.PP
\fB removetoken --serial= | --user=  \fR
.RS 4
This will remove the token with the given serialnumber or all tokens of the given user from the LinOTP server.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ resynctoken --serial= | --user=  --otp1= --otp2=   \fR
.RS 4
This will resync an evenbased token like the HMAC OTP tokens. You need to specify the serialnumber and also two succeeding OTP values.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ set --user= | --serial=  [--pin=]  [--maxfailcount=] [--syncwindow=] [--otplen=] \fR
.RS 4
This can set several values for one token or all tokens of the given user.
.RE

.SH SECURITY MODULE COMMANDS

A security module is a module to be used to store the encrpytion keys and encrypt and decrypt data.
In the linotp.ini file you need to configure the security module, which can be a file, a PKCS11
smartcard or hardware security module.
Some security modules need a password to access the encryption keys. You can either specify the
password in linotp.ini or you can enter the password afterwards using this command.

\fB\ securityModule \fR
.RS 4
This will retrieve the information about the current security module.
To set the password for the security module, you need to specify the module name with the parameter --module.
.RE

\fB\ securityModule --module=<modulename> \fR
.RS 4
Set the password for the module defined in linotp.ini.
.RE


.SH SERVER CONFIGURATION COMMANDS

.PP
\fB\ getconfig  \fR
.RS 4
This returns the complete server configuration of the 
LinOTP server as it is stored in the Config table of
the token database.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ setconfig --config= \fR
.RS 4
This can be used to set a single config value like 
\fB\--config='DefaultSyncWindow=512'\fR.
.RE


.SH REALM AND RESOLVER CONFIGURATION COMMANDS
A LinOTP server may have several UserIdResolvers configured.
A UserIdResolver tells the LinOTP server, where the users are
stored. This can be flat files on the LinOTP server, SQL servers or
LDAP/AD servers.

Several UserIdResolvers can be grouped togeather into a "REALM".

Thus one LinOTP server can manage several user with the same
loginname, as long as they reside in different realms.

A user needs to provide the realm he belongs to. Either he
needs to do this directly or the authentication module might
be configured this way, to add the realm. If the user does not 
provide and realm and the authentication modul also does not
set any realm, this user is looked up in the DEFAULT REALM.

These commands can be used to configure UserIdResolvers and realms.
.PP
\fB\ getrealms \fR
.RS 4
This lists all realms. Within each realm you can see, which 
UserIdResolvers belong to this realm.
This command takes no parameter.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ setrealm --realm=<realmname> --resolver=<resolverlist> \fR
.RS 4
This command will set the resolverlist of a realm. If the realm does not exist, it will be created. If the realm does exist, the old resolverlist will be overwritten.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ deleterealm --realm=<realmname>  \fR
.RS 4
This will delete the realm with the given name. The UserIdResolvers will not be deleted.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ setdefaultrealm --realm=<realmname> \fR
.RS 4
This will set the default realm.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ getresolvers \fR
.RS 4
This returns a list of all UserIdResolvers. This command takes no arguments.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ deleteresolver --resolver=<resolvername> \fR
.RS 4
This will delete the UserIdResolver with the given resolvername.
.RE

.PP
\fB\ setresolver --resolver=<resolvername> --rtype=[LDAP|SQL|FILE] ... \fR
.RS 4
This will create a new UserIdResolver or reconfigure a given UserIdResolver.
The type of the UserIdResolver is set with the parameter --rtype. A detailed list of
parameters for setting up UserIdResolvers can be found in seciont \fBUSERIDRESOLVER PARAMETERS\fR.
.RE

.SH COMMAND ARGUMENTS

.PP
--user=<user>
.RS 4
This argument is always used, when token operations
are run on a user. This expects the loginname of the user.
.RE

.PP
--pin=<pin>
.RS 4
This expects the OTP PIN, when setting the OTP PIN for a given token.
.RE

.PP
--serial=<S/N>
.RS 4
Token are always addressed by their serial number. 
So always when you are doing some operation on a token,
you need to specify the serial number.
.RE

.PP
--description=<description of token>
.RS 4
Each token may have a desription. You can use this argument to set it.
.RE

.PP
--otpkey=<BASE64>
.RS 4
This is the HMAC secret that is used to calculate the OTP values. In case of MOTP token, this is the motp secret.
.RE

.PP
--file=<file>
.RS 4
Used to specify the XML filename with the token definitions to import.
.RE

.PP
--otp1=, --otp2=
.RS 4
The succeeding otp values when resyncing an event based token.
.RE

.PP
--window=<window size>
.RS 4
This is the resync windows size, when resyncing tokens.
.RE

.PP
--etng
.RS 4
When doing an inittoken, this flag tells the client to initialize an eToken NG OTP.
.RE

.PP
--pytoken
.RS 4
When doing an inittoken, this flag tells the client that a pytoken should be generated.
.RE

.PP
--type=<tokentype>
.RS 4
When doing an inittoken, this arguemnts tells, what kind of token should be initialized. Valid values: "HMAC" (default), "motp".
.RE

.PP
--realm=<realmname>
.RS 4
When dealing with realms, this takes the name of the realm. It should only contain the characters a-z,0-9 and the "minus".
.RE

.PP
--resolver=<resolvername> or --resolver=<resolverlist>
.RS 4
With some commands this arguemnt takes a single resolvername, with others a comma seperated list of resolver identifiers.
.RE

.PP
--csv
.RS 4
This parameter adds to the command "listtoken". Show the token list as CSV format. 
.RE

.PP
--export_fields=<additional user fields>
.RS 4
Additional fields from the useridresolver to add to the export.
.RE

.SH USERIDRESOLVEER PARAMETERS

.PP
--rf_file         
.RS 4
Resolver FILE: the filename containing the users on the LinOTP server
.RE

.PP
--rl_uri          
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the LDAP uri of the ldap server
.RE

.PP
--rl_basedn       
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the BaseDN for searching for users
.RE

.PP
--rl_binddn       
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the BindDN to authenticate to the LDAP server
.RE

.PP
--rl_bindpw       
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the Bind Password to authenticate to the LDAP server
.RE
.PP
--rl_timeout      
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the timeout when connecting to the LDAP server
.RE
.PP
--rl_loginattr    
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the attribute containing the loginname like uid
.RE
.PP
--rl_searchfilter 
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the searchfilter. Something like (uid=*)(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)
.RE
.PP
--rl_userfilter   
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the userfilter for reverse resoling the DN for a given loginname,
something like (&(uid=%s)(ObjectClass=inetOrgPerson))
.RE
.PP
--rl_attrmap      
.RS 4
Resolver LDAP: the attribute mapping. Something like:
{ "username": "uid", "phone" : "telephoneNumber", "groups" : "o", "mobile" : "mobile", "email" : "mail", "surname" : "sn", "givenname" : "givenName" }
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
To list all know users you may issue a command like this:
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=listtoken
.RE

.PP
To import an XML file to your server, you need to do the following:
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=importtoken --file=mytoken.xml
.RE

.PP
To enroll a pytoken and assign it to the user 'hans' do this. This will output a python script (the pytoken) to stdout. The token will be assigned to the user 'hans' and when the token is used, the counter will we written to his home directory.
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=inittoken --user=hans --pytokeni
.RE

.PP
To enroll an eToken NG OTP and assign it to 'hans' do this. The serial number will be read from the smartcard of the eToken NG OTP.
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=inittoken --user=hans --etng
.RE

.PP
To set the OTP PIN to 'test' for a token with the serial number 003e7e4e do this:
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=set --serial=003e7e4e --pin=test
.RE

.PP
To set a new LDAP UserIdResolver, that contacts an LDAP server on 172.16.200.1 you could do it like this:
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=setresolver --resolver=newldap --rtype=LDAP --rl_uri='ldaps://172.16.200.1' --rl_basedn='dc=az,dc=local' --rl_binddn='cn=admin,dc=az,dc=local' --rl_bindpw='guessWhat' --rl_timeout=5  --rl_loginattr=uid --rl_searchfilter='(uid=*)(ObejctClass=inetOrgPerson)' --rl_userfilter='(&(uid=%s)(ObjectClass=inetOrgPerson))' --rl_attrmap='{ "username": "uid", "phone" : "telephoneNumber", "groups" : "o", "mobile" : "mobile", "email" : "mail", "surname" : "sn", "givenname" : "givenName" }'
.RE

.PP
Now you might want to add this UserIdResolver do a realm:
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=setrealm --realm=myRealm --resolver='useridresolver.LDAPIdResolver.IdResolver.newldap'
.RE

.PP
If you want to make the new realm 'myRealm' the default realm do this:
.RS 4
\fB
linotpadm.py --url=https://localhost:443 --admin=admin --command=setdefaultrealm --realm=myRealm
.RE

.SH CONFIG FILE EXAMPLE

.RS 4
\fB
[Default]
.br
protocol=https
.br
host=localhost
.br
admin=admin
.br
password=test123!
.br
command=listtoken
.br
csv_format=True
.br
mail_host=localhost
.br
mail_to=<email>
.br
mail_from=<email>
.br
mail_subject=some text
.br                           
cifs_server=your.file.server
.br
cifs_share=<share>
.br
cifs_dir=<directory>
.br
cifs_user=<username>
.br
cifs_password=<password>
.RE

.SH INTERNET SOURCES
http://www.linotp.org,  http://www.lsexperts.de
.SH SEE ALSO
python (1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
LSE Leading Security Experts GmbH <linotp-community@lsexperts.de>, Cornelius Kölbel <cornelius.koelbel@lsexperts.de>
